Ingenius three I'm going to drag and a bunch to host to the workspace.
There's a book to host will be our PC in the typology.
I'm also going to drag a router into the topology and I'll add an Ethernet switch to the topology so
very simple typology of a PC a switch and a router
I'll connect to the PC to the switch and the switch to the router that's how the devices are connected
to one another and all start the devices up.
There's no configuration on any of these devices at the moment.
Let's open up a console to the PC.
We can see that it's in a buntu PC called a buntu one.
And if I use the command I-F config eat 0 you'll notice that the PC doesn't have an IP version 4 dress
configured but it does have a IP version 6 alink a local address.
This is the MAC address of the PC.
Notice it ends in e 9.
This is the link local address of the PC.
Notice IP version 6 address if he A-T slash 64 mosque scope is link local.
So let's have a look at the router.
The Rotto has just it's a default configuration has been applied in this example.
But what you'll notice is all interfaces are currently shut down.
Show IP interface gigabit.
0 0 shows us that the protocol is down.
Show IPV 6 interface gigabit to 0 0 shows no output.
Show IP V-6 interface.
Brief no IP version 6 addresses are configured.
All the interfaces are shut down.
In other words they had Minister Avali shut down.
What I'm going to do at this point is shut down the PC.
So I want to turn it off and then I'm going to configure the router.
What it also want to do is run a wire shock capture on this link so that we can see any messages that
are sent by either the PC or the router so at the moment we're not seeing any one shot captures but
what I'll do on the Rodda is give it a name.
All the Nabl IPV six unique cost routing go on to Keiga it is 00 and lets configure and IPV 6 address
of 2001 face colon colon one slash 64.
So do show run interface could give it to 00.
All I've done is configure an IP version 6 address on the interface and enable IPV 6 unicast rotting
when I know shut to the interface what we should notice is IP version 6 and messages are sent and there
they are.
So here's a multicast message.
This is to do with a melody that multicast is used for the multicast listener discovery protocol or
MLT version to
so MLT.
Reports are sent to this address if zero to call on colognes 16.
But for now we won't concern ourselves with that protocol.
Notice she has an example we have a neighbor's solicitation message from a device with this source MAC
address 8 2 9 0 0.
So let's have a look at the MAC address of that interface.
So show RPV 6 rather interface gigabit 00.
What you'll notice is this is the link local address of the router and the router has joined multiple
multicast groups.
This is the global unicast address and if we do show interface could give it to 00 you can see that
that's the current in address of the router.
So ending an 8 9 0 0.
So this is the router sending a message.
If we open this up we can see him all the messages and noticed she has a neighbor's solicitation message
from the Rodda
filter for IPV 6 so we only see those messages.
And here again you can see the neighbor's solicitation message.
Here we have a Rodda advertisement message so the rod is advertising itself.
Notice it's advertising the source a link layer address.
That's the MAC address of the Rodda we can see the empty you and notice Schir prefix information.
2001 colon face colon colon slash 64.
So again show run interface gigabit 0 0 that is the network that we configured on the router show IP
version 6 interface gigabit to 0 0.
That is the global unicast address on the router and that is the subnet that's being advertised.
So the router is advertising that network through a Rodda advertisement message.
If we scroll down you'll notice that that is continually advertised.
Here is another neighbor advertisement from the router's IP address to all devices on the local segment
and going back to rought advertisement notice sending it to all hosts on the local segment.
Why Shock shows this quite nicely.
There is a neighbor advertisement.
Here again is a router advertisement message with the Prefect's and the rod is continually advertising
that network.